# GALAGAI
This program uses reinforcement learning, specifically a Deep Q-Network (DQN) model, to train a machine learning agent to play an emulation of the 1981 arcade game Galaga. The emulation used here is from ihalseide’s open-source Galaga clone that utilizes the Pygame library (https://github.com/ihalseide/Galaga). Our project focuses on the creation and implementation of the agent to play the game and track both game score and reward score for each training episode.

The program is initiated by the game.py file. This file initiates both the game and training episodes for the agent by calling the ai_train.py file and the main.py file. The ai_train.py file utilizes the same Pygame library as ihalseide’s Galaga clone, but also PyTorch, numpy, and the random libraries. This file also contains the reward system used for the reinforced learning of the agent.

The play.py file is called in ai_train.py to start the game environment. Here, setup.py and hud.py are used to set up and display the game screen at the state of the game, including the score and the number of lives for the agent’s ship. The environment is visually enhanced by the stars.py file that randomly generates the stars seen in the background of the game. The enemies in Galaga are defined in generated by the sprites.py file, along with their scripted actions and movements. Meanwhile, the scoring.py file is used to keep track of the agent’s score from destroying the enemies and the amount each enemy is worth for each episode. The states.py file is used to transition and render each of the levels as the agent dies or progresses through the game, generating enemies, and the ship’s starting position. The tools.py file is used by several of the previously mentioned files to calculate the distances needed between the score display, the agent’s ship, the enemies, and the areas in which the ship and enemies are allowed to move.

The agent’s model, its training parameters, and any experience gained or progress made by the agent made between episodes is stored in the galaga_dqn.pth. For the most recent training session, the episode number, the reward points earned by the agent, and its game score for that episode are saved in the training_log.csv file to track its performance between episodes. Additionally, the five highest scores from each training session ran is saved and viewable in the scores.txt file. 
